How does authentication work in an ionic app.
An eye on a gap typically is a single page application using a front end framework like angular but
you could also use react or view or build everything with vanilla javascript.
But typically all the magic happens in the browser.
We're not constantly refactoring each team and pages still of course we communicate with a server which
has contact to the database where we manage our user sense on and which might also manage our avid data
as we're doing it in this course.
Now when we authenticate from our eye on a gap we're sending a request to that server and that request
of course contains things like the user email and password and we expect some response.
Now in a traditional web app where we render all our H2 male pages on the server we would manage authentication
with a sash and because we always would have a server who which basically knows whether we're authenticated
and so on.
Now however with an eye on a gap and server which is stateless which is a RESTful API or a raft you
al API there a session is not the solution because the server doesn't know us it doesn't know decline
and it doesn't care about the client.
Instead we'll get back a so-called token which in the end is just a string but a string with a lot of
data encoded into it and that token is generated on the server in a way that only the server can validate
whatever that token is well valid which will become important in a second.
So we get that token back after the server determined that our email and password is correct and on
the client we can save that token in storage and for dad of course I'll show you a how to access storage.
That also works on native apps so we stored at token and now the idea behind that token is that whenever
we have to access some protected resource on the server.
So whenever we want to send the request to some and point dead requires and authenticate user like for
example when we create a new event that in such cases we have to attach the token to that request which
we can do because we stored it on the front end in that storage.
And now the server can check that token and basically find out if it is the token it originally generated
so that we can send any string.
It has to be that token which we got back and this token is generated in a way that only the server
can tell whether it is valid and that works by using a private key on the server.
So this is the way of vindication works.
Now the heavy lifting on the server will be done by firebase for us here.
If you are building your own server side solution you of course will manage that on your own and you
could learn that in courses like my note J asked a complete guide coords if you want you will focus
on the front and part on the ionic app part here.